hi I'm Miriam from BBC good food and I'm
going to show you how to make shortcrust
pastry the best way to do this is in a
food processor you can make it by hand
but the warmth of your hands can cause
the butter to melt too quickly and make
the pastry a bit greasy so the first
thing we need is 250 grams of plain
flour and then I need half that weight
in butter
this is cold butter straight from the
fridge pulse it up what you're looking
for is really fine crumbs so a bit like
fresh breadcrumbs or ground almonds this
is also a good time to add any sugar if
you're making a sweet pastry or I'm just
going to add a pinch of salt okay that's
perfect
I'm gonna add some liquid now to bring
this dough together I'm using milk but
some recipes will ask you to use water
or maybe even some egg yolk start with 1
tablespoon and then add another if it
isn't coming together so it's starting
to clump but I need a little bit more
liquid to bring it together don't add
too much otherwise the pastry will
become chewy that looks great and it's
starting to come together and you can
push it together with your hands and
that's exactly what we're going to do
next all we need to do is push it
together into a dough another really
good thing about using a food processor
it means you don't overwork it so you
need to be quite delicate when you push
it together handle it as little as
possible and shape into a disk
and then all you need to do now is cover
it with cling film and chill it for
about 30 minutes or overnight if you can
and then it's ready to roll out and use
in your recipes so there you go how to
make shortcrust pastry from BBC good
food
[Music]